Rename "union selector" to "list selector" (#147)
ietf-wg-jsonpath/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base: draft-ietf-jsonpath-base.md

  * Array slice selector `[<start>:<end>:<step>]`, where the optional
    values `<start>`, `<end>`, and `<step>` are integer literals.
  * Nested descendants selector `..`.
  * List selector `[<sel1>,<sel2>,...,<selN>]`, holding a comma

>     separated list of index and slice selectors.

Reviewer: I think calling it that it only hold index and slice selectors is good.  During the meeting, I feared that it would merely a "collection of selectors," implying that it could itself hold a list selector, which would be recursive and confusing.

Do we need to add "member names" as is mentioned on line 966?

Author: index selectors can contain quoted member names, so that should not be necessary (after we have called it out already).

Children of an object may occur in any order, since JSON objects are unordered.

### List Selector

The list selector allows combining member names, array indices, and
slices in a single selector.

Note: The list selector was called "union selector" in
{{JSONPath-orig}}, as it was intended to solve use cases addressed by
the union selector in XPath.

> However, the term "union" implies the set operation that involves

Reviewer 2: If we keep this note (and I'm not sure we should), I suggest the following rewording:
```suggestion
However, the term "union" has the connotation of a set operation that involves
```

merging input sets while avoiding duplicates, so the concept was

> renamed into "list selector".

Reviewer: I'm not sure this note is necessary for the spec.  I don't think historical context is right for specifying language.  Maybe this kind of information needs its own area in the document or even externally.

Author: I believe previous users of JSONPath are part of the target audience.
It would be confusing to just rename the thing.

Reviewer: My argument is that there is no historical spec. I think this document should be written as if it is defining the syntax from the start.  Any and all references to previous materials, including XPath, should be in an appendix or a separate document.

Author: Previous users of JSONPath did have a spec, just not a very detailed one or a very official one.  Generally, aspects of usability trump arbitrary principles that do not by themselves contribute to a good outcome.  Why do we waste time on this discussion.

Reviewer: It was a proposal in a blog post.  Such things need to include this kind of context because users have nothing else to draw upon, and given that XPath was the inspiration, its inclusion in the post is warranted.

However a specification is intended to _define_ a thing.  Purpose is needed, but stories of inspiration are not.  If you want to put some history in an appendix, okay, I guess, but historical context should not exist in the midst of the definition (either syntactical definition or behavioral).

Reviewer 2: I agree with @cabo on this. The term "union" is pretty widespread among JSONPath implementations and the renaming deserves being called out in the body of the document. If we don't explain the rationale, people will wonder why we didn't stick with "union". We could put this in an appendix, but that seems rather artificial/pedantic to me.

#### Syntax
{: unnumbered}

The list selector is syntactically related to the

> `index-selector` and the `slice-selector`.

Reviewer: What's the relationship between `index-selector` and member names? That might answer my question from above as well.  Member names are again mentioned on 986.  I just find it confusing to have two terms in some descriptions and three in others.

Maybe this could be addressed in a follow-up PR?

Author: At this point, the reader should already know what an index selector is.

It contains two or more entries, separated by commas.

~~~~ abnf
list-selector  = "[" S list-entry 1*(S "," S list-entry) S "]"

list-entry     =  ( quoted-member-name /
                    element-index      /
                    slice-index

>                   )

Reviewer 2: It seems that lists can't contain filters (neither could unions before this PR). I wonder if this is deliberate or accidental? The comparison project shows there is [no consensus](https://cburgmer.github.io/json-path-comparison/results/union_with_filter.html) among implementations.

Reviewer: Interesting. I'm not sure that you should be forbidden to do so, either. I believe I support it already.

Author: Now https://github.com/ietf-wg-jsonpath/draft-ietf-jsonpath-base/issues/150

| `*`   | `*`                | wildcard: All XML elements regardless of their names                                                                                  |
| `@`   | n/a                | attribute access: JSON values do not have attributes                                                                                  |
| `[]`  | `[]`               | subscript operator used to iterate over XML element collections and for predicates                                                    |

> | `¦`   | `[,]`              | Union operator (results in a combination of node sets); called list operator in JSONPath, allows combining member names, array indices, and slices |

Reviewer 3: ... combining *quoted* member names, array indices, ...

Author: Is the fact that the member names are quoted relevant here?  It is not mentioned in []...

Reviewer 3: As we explicitly distinguish between `dot-member-name` and `quoted-member-name` we should be concrete here also.
